# Welcome to my Portfolio 

I'm Carlos, a passionate reader, apprentice and practicioner of new technologies mainly focused on data science such as machine learning, deep learning, data engineering, and their applicationes in solving complex business problems that that include collecting, intrepreting, analyzing, and modeling data.

My expertise also includes software development, software engineering, and entrepreneurship.

💻 I'm currently working as a Data Engineer in a Delivery Company.

🌱 I'm learning how to deploy machine learning models in AWS and GCP.

👯 I'm looking to collaborate on data science projects.

# Personal Projects
## Project 1: Prediction of accidents in Mexico City 
**Description**

This project is about predicting what kind of accident a person could have, based on its geo-position, day of the week, and time, among other features. 
The project repo can be found [here](https://github.com/carloslme/accidents-prediction-cdmx)

## Project 2: Classification of types of food
**Description**

This project predicts 16 types of food, and then predicts what type of breakfast could result from different combinations between them.
The project repo can be found [here](https://github.com/carloslme/redconvolucional)

## Project 3 - Regression

## Project 4 - Exploratory Data Analysis


# Professional experience

## iVoy - OnDemand & SameDay Deliveries, Mexico City — **Data Engineer**
FEBRUARY 2021 - CURRENT
- Consolidation of raw data from multiple databases such as **MySQL, Postgres, MongoDB** into a **Kafka** cluster mounted in **AWS** (more than 500M records and data streaming).
- Creation of Data Lake on AWS S3 with data from **Kafka Cluster** and consumption with **Glue**, **Athena** and **QuickSight** to analyze data in real time.
- Implement **ETL** processes for raw data with **Glue** and **PySpark**.

## Uber Technologies Inc, Mexico City — **Intern in Driver and Rider Operations**
OCTOBER 2019 – JANUARY 2021
- Data collection, preprocessing, and analysis on large and complex data sets about documents, trips, profile information of drivers, partners, and vehicles using SQL (Presto), Python, Pandas, and internal tools.
- Converted a manual spreadsheet into an automated dashboard that reports the regulatory status of Mexico cities for all drivers and vehicles documents using Python, SQL, and Google Sheets.
- Designed and developed a GUI app to automate the pre-processing of driver, vehicle, and partner documents, saving 40+ hours per month of manual work, increasing drivers and vehicles funnel (2.6x) using Python, Django, and SQL.
- Prototyped a document processing automation notebook to avoid document rejection for Drivers and Partners for internal audits and increase information legitimacy of National Identification document using CNN ResNet-50, Computer Vision and OCR.
- Generation of high-level documentation from Engineering teams for non-technical people in Rides Ops Mexico, Regulatory, Marketplace, among others.

## Neimpetu S.A.S, Colombia (remote) — **Software Developer**
MAY 2019 - SEPTEMBER 2019
- Web application development for insurance company purposes.
- Analysis of user requirements with clients.
- Design, development, and test of more than 30 modules, CRUD frontend, and backend, search/sort/filter functionalities and general page navigation using Angular, Typescript, Java, Java Spring Tool, and SQL Server.
- Developed modules were verified through user-testing, and design reviews.

## Propulsar MX, Mexico City — **AI Intern Developer**
DECEMBER 2016- JULY 2018
- Create chatbots to identify customer intentions in written messages using Natural Language Processing.
- Registration of complaints, suggestions, compliments, among other situations generated by the chatbots, and related with local governments, using C#, Microsoft Bot Framework, SQL Server, and Azure Cognitive Services (API LUIS).
